---
layout: post
title: Improving Statistical Learning by Means of the Proportional Overlapping Scores
subtitle: Within Functional Genomic Experiments
tags: [POS, Statistical-learning]
---
<!--
NEED SPELLING CHECK
-->

<p align="justify">
A Statistical learning approach concerns with understanding and modelling complex datasets. Based on a given training data, its main aim is to build a model that maps the relationship between a set of input features and a considered response in a predictive way. Classification is the foremost task of such a learning process. It has applications encompassing many important fields in modern biology, including microarray data as well as other functional genomic experiments.
</p>

<p align="justify">
Microarray technology, for instance, allows measuring tens of thousands of genes (features) simultaneously. However, the expressions of these genes are usually observed in a small number, tens to few hundreds, of tissue samples (observations). This common characteristic of high dimensionality has a great impact on the process of learning from data, since most of genes are noisy, redundant or non-relevant to the considered learning task.
</p>

<p align="justify">
Both the prediction accuracy and interpretability of a constructed model are believed to be enhanced by performing the learning process based only on selected informative features. Motivated by this notion, a novel statistical method, named Proportional Overlapping Scores (POS), is proposed for selecting features based on overlapping analysis of gene expression data across different classes of a considered classification task. This method results in a novel measure, called $POS$ score, of a feature's relevance to the learning task.
<!--
POS is further extended to minimize the redundancy among the selected features.
-->
</p>

#### Summary of Research Findings
<p align="justify">
The proposed approach is validated on several benchmark, publicly available, gene expression datasets using widely used classifier models to observe effects on their prediction accuracy. Selection stability is also examined to address the captured biological knowledge in the obtained results. The experimental results of classification error rates computed using the Random Forest, $k$ Nearest Neighbor and Support Vector Machine classifiers showed that the proposal achieves a better performance than widely used gene selection methods.
</p>

#### What does this research provide?
<p align="justify">
A novel feature selection method, named POS, is proposed. POS analyzes the expressions overlap across classes taking into account the proportions of overlapping observations. It robustly defines a mask for each feature that allows to minimize the effect of expression outliers. A feature's mask captures capability of the feature to classify unambiguesly each training observation to its true class. It then represents the feature' classification power in the considered learning task. The constructed masks along-with a novel feature score are exploited to produce the selected subset of features.
</p>

# Research Methods

# Results and Disscussion
Refer mostly to the paper

# Conclusion